# (This rulebook is deprecated. Please refer to v1.3 instead!)

# Welcome to the v1.2 rulebook!
This rulebook consists of all types, explanations on stats and much more!

# First of all, how does Makeshift work?
Since Makeshift is a turn-based RPG duel game where you get to duel your friends with a custom moveset. These movesets are manually verified and approved for fairness before you can "legally" use it.

Every duel must have one Gamemaster which supervises the game and makes it fair. If you are running an unranked duel, then Gamemasters are not required and fairness is partially required.

# Types
There are many different types of things in Makeshift!

## Types of Moves -- Parameter 1
When creating your moveset, there are 2 parameters that you have to fill in to make your moveset work and get verified for fairness. This is the first parameter. (PR1, PR2)

There are many different types of moves.

The four main types of moves are:
* **ATTACK** --> Moves that consists of attacking or fighting the enemy. This is one of the most common types of moves.

* **DEFENSE** --> Moves that help defend your character. You may be using a sci-fi forcefield or a physical shield and etc.

* **BUFF** --> Moves that help buff **you** in some sort of way. This could be a spell that heals you overtime or a strength effect that helps you in combat.

* **DEBUFF** --> Moves that help debuff **the enemy** or to yourself if it's a penalty for using that move.

The rest are subtypes and additional types for PR1.

* **HEALING** --> Subtype of BUFF. If you have a healing BUFF, use this to classify your healing BUFF moves. Typically heals a medium amount of health.

* **REVIVE** --> These moves are mostly one-time and cannot be used multiple times. These moves will not heal you to max, instead it may provide a bit of HP and possibly a buff.

* **COUNTER** --> Subtype of ATTACK. A move that counters any previous move. Most of the time, counters need RNG to work but super fair and underpowered COUNTER moves don't need this condition.

* **SPELL CARD** --> Subtype of BUFF.

## Types of Moves -- Parameter 2 
After making sure PR1 makes sense in your moveset, 

There are two main types, PHYSICAL and MAGIC!
These two types determine what happens when attacking certain spell cards and the DEF stat.

* **PHYSICAL** --> Moves that use a physical item or weapon. This includes, punches, swords, spears and etc.

* **MAGIC** --> Moves that consist of elements, spells, magic cards and anything fantasy-like. This includes wands, staffs, spell cards and etc.

In some scenarios, picking only one type of attacks will not affect your combat experience. But if your opponent has a moveset that supresses PHYSICAL moves and vice versa, you will be in a very sticky situation.

