# Ahoy there!
Welcome to the v1.3 rulebook!

Welcome to a new era of Makeshift! This rulebook explains everything you need to know from new changes to existing rules!

# What's New?
There are many new changes to v1.3!

v1.3's codename is, **"The Rework Update"**!

* Reworked Traits -- You can finally use traits using your player stats! There are many different and new stats! You can find these traits [here](https://github.com/MakeshiftProject/Makeshift/tree/main/makeshift/global_data/traits.txt)!

* New Conditions and Limits / Reworked Stats -- When tuning your stats to your needs, there are multiple conditions and limits to what you can do! They are explained [here](https://github.com/MakeshiftProject/Makeshift/tree/main/makeshift/global_data/conditions.txt)

* Ranked & Unranked -- Ranked Movesets are manually verified and approved movesets for fairness, whereas there are unranked movesets which do not need to be verified & approved! This system is being used to prepare for FIRS and to remove weight on Gamemasters and beginners. Beginners can now make movesets without being penalised for unfairness!

* Practice Matches (since v1.2.5) -- You can now practice against a Gamemaster and fight against an existing moveset or a training dummy!

* Cleaning Up -- There are some other minor or irrelavent changes that are not listed in this rulebook. You can check them in the release notes.

## Are there any bug fixes / moveset nerfs/buffs and etc.?

They can all be found [here](https://github.com/MakeshiftProject/Makeshift/tree/main/makeshift/moveset_log/)! This folder contains a changelog of all nerfs and buffs to ranked movesets!

## Anything planned?

We're planning to add:

* Global Buffs -- We're currently planning to implement this on v1.4! The concept of Global Buffs is to buff every user in ongoing matches and not single-time matches! This can vary from a x2 damage boost to a passive healing buff!

* Fully Implemented Ranking System (FIRS) -- This is planned for v1.4-v1.5! We are soon going to have a leaderboard for registered ranked players to compete on for a little competition spirit!

* FIRS Season System -- Every month, a new season arrives with new rewards! The player with the most round wins per season wins and gets 1 [Season Coin]!

* Preparation Items -- While preparing for the match, use a preparation item which lasts early game which might boost your chance of winning early!

# What is Makeshift and how does it work?
Makeshift is a turn-based RPG game inspired by D&D and Yu-gi-oh. The game is completely customisable, with the only thing holding you back is your imagination and the EX shop.

# Movesets

## Types of Movesets
There are many types of movesets in Makeshift. These are:

* Player-made Movesets -- Movesets created by users! This is the most common and recommended moveset type, for late-game players and beginners.

* EX Movesets -- Exclusive movesets bought from the Exclusive Shop. From the exclusive shop, you can buy movesets with Level Coins and Level Fragments. More informations in the Exclusive Shop.

* Season Movesets -- Mostly bought with Season Coins. More information on the current season's MD file.

## Moveset Ranking
There are 2 systems for movesets, RANKED and UNRANKED.

#### **RANKED**
- **Verified and approved for fair play** (for a fair match and more fun)
- Able to compete in RANKED matches and compete in Seasons (for a little competition spirit!)
- Season buffs are applied (to help you in matches)
- Exclusive Shop is open (for you to buy exclusive items)
- Your own account file (to track your currency and owned movesets)
- Requires a gamemaster to supervise
> This is recommended for beginners to late-game players. You are automatically approved to be a RANKED moveset once you've been verified and approved for fair play.

#### **UNRANKED**
- No restrictions (also means no fair play)
- No limitations (only your imagination)
- Your match, your rules (get to do whatever you want with your moveset)
> This is recommended for beginners, and really creative people who don't care about fair play. This is not good in the long term though.

## Moveset Requirements
For a moveset, you are required to fill in many holes, such as:

* Your stats -- They define your traits and conditions, as well as how good your attacks are and how much damage is reduced from you.

* Normal Moves -- Moves that are common and require nothing to use. Max of 3 and can be used in other movesets, even ones that are not your own.

* Reserve / Unique Moves -- Moves that are locked until a certain requirement is met, such as reaching a certain turn. There is no limit for unique/reserve moves unless you make the certain requirement the same, which has a limit of 5 moves.

### Moveset Stats
There are only 3 stats (1 is being deprecated in v1.3.2), which are the following:

* ATK -- This is a stat that helps with your ATTACK moves. It is a general stat, meaning it's a multi-purpose stat and not always just for attacking.

* DEF -- This is strategically and normally used only for damage reduction or if your moveset relies on it (like Dark Knight in Season 1).

* DODGE (deprecated in v1.3.5) -- The chance of dodging an enemy move with a DODGE move. This is normally used just for conditions and to raise the percentage for DODGE moves.

### Moves
All moves require a layout. You can create custom layouts but, for the sake of simplicity, we'll be usintg the default layout. The default layout can be found in most movesets such as ATW, GE and BST. 

An example move looks like this:

> [=] Punch (DMG: 10) (PHYSICAL, ATTACK)

> (punch the enemy, definitely not lightly)

> (can be used every turn)

This contains the following elements:

* A symbol, representing it's a normal move. "[=]"
* The name of the move. "Punch"
* How much damage it deals. "(DMG: 10)"
* Parameters. "(PHYSICAL, ATTACK)" (we'll talk about it later)
* And the cooldown. "(can be used every turn)"

The first 3 should be self-explanatory, but the 4th and 5th element needs more explanation.

#### **Parameters**
The parameters at the end is very important for classifying moves.

Parameter 1 is the type of move. It describes how the move is used in terms of casting it. In v1.3, these are the following types available.

* PHYSICAL -- Physical moves require something like an object for the move. For example, you would be wielding a sword, potion flask, etc.

* MAGIC -- Magic moves are moves that are related to fantasy or need to be cast in some way. For example, spell cards, healing potions, fire walls and etc.

(In v1.4, there will be more types. Stay tuned!)

Parameter 2 is the second type of move. It describes how the move is used. In v1.3, these are the following types available:

* ATTACK -- The most common type of move. It simply attacks the enemy.

* DEFENSE -- The least common type of move. A move that protects you in one way or another.

* BUFF -- A move that buffs you in one way or another.

* DEBUFF -- A move that debuffs the enemy in one way or another.

* TRANSFORM -- A move that overrides every single other move in your moveset with the submoves of the TRANSFORM move.

Here are some sub-types of P2:

* HEALING -- Sub-type of buff.